docs/index.md, before:

# Smart-Shell Documentation

Welcome to the official documentation for **Smart-Shell**!

![Smart-Shell Logo](images/image.png)

[![Status](https://img.shields.io/badge/Status-Active%20Development-brightgreen)](https://github.com/Lusan-sapkota/smart-shell)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache--2.0-blue.svg)](../LICENSE)
[![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3.8%2B-blue)](https://www.python.org/)
[![Gemini](https://img.shields.io/badge/AI-Google%20Gemini-orange)](https://ai.google.dev/)

> **Smart-Shell is in active development.**

Smart-Shell is an intelligent terminal assistant that converts natural language into executable Bash/Zsh commands using Google's Gemini AI models.

## 🚀 Quick Start

- **One-Command Installation:**
  ```bash
  curl -sSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Lusan-sapkota/smart-shell/main/install.sh | bash
  ```

  The installation script automatically:
  - Installs all required dependencies
  - Sets up Smart-Shell with pipx
  - Creates desktop entries and command completion
  - Runs the setup wizard for API key configuration
  
- **Start Using Smart-Shell:**
  ```bash
  smart-shell
  ```

- For detailed installation options and troubleshooting, see [Installation](installation.md).
- For development setup, see [Development](development.md).

## 📚 Documentation Navigation

- [Features](features.md)
- [Installation](installation.md)
- [Usage](usage.md)
- [Safety](safety.md)
- [Development](development.md)
- [API Reference](api.md)
- [Changelog](CHANGELOG.md)
- [License](../LICENSE)
- [Author](author.md)
- [Contributing](contributing.md)
- [FAQ](faq.md)

---

For more, visit the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/Lusan-sapkota/smart-shell).

Commit message:

feat: Enhance Smart-Shell setup and command generation
- Improved setup logic for API key and sudo password with better prompts and validation.
- Added detailed model information retrieval and display functionality.
- Enhanced command generation system prompt for better context understanding and command accuracy.
- Introduced a new ModelInfo module to fetch and cache real-time model information from web sources.
- Updated welcome message to include special commands and configuration commands in a structured format.
- Added warnings for premium models and improved user guidance for API key validation.

docs/index.md, after:

# Smart-Shell Documentation

Welcome to the official documentation for **Smart-Shell**!

![Smart-Shell Logo](images/image.png)

[![Status](https://img.shields.io/badge/Status-Active%20Development-brightgreen)](https://github.com/Lusan-sapkota/smart-shell)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache--2.0-blue.svg)](../LICENSE)
[![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3.8%2B-blue)](https://www.python.org/)
[![Gemini](https://img.shields.io/badge/AI-Google%20Gemini-orange)](https://ai.google.dev/)

> **Smart-Shell is in active development.**

Smart-Shell is an advanced AI-powered terminal assistant that converts natural language into executable Bash/Zsh commands using Google's Gemini AI models. It features comprehensive safety systems, interactive command management, and intelligent error handling.

## 🚀 Quick Start

- **One-Command Installation:**
  ```bash
  curl -sSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Lusan-sapkota/smart-shell/main/install.sh | bash
  ```

  The installation script automatically:
  - Installs all required dependencies
  - Sets up Smart-Shell with pipx
  - Creates desktop entries and command completion
  - Runs the setup wizard for API key configuration
  
- **Start Using Smart-Shell:**
  ```bash
  smart-shell
  ```

- For detailed installation options and troubleshooting, see [Installation](installation.md).
- For development setup, see [Development](development.md).

## 📚 Documentation Navigation

- [Features](features.md)
- [Installation](installation.md)
- [Usage](usage.md)
- [Safety](safety.md)
- [Development](development.md)
- [API Reference](api.md)
- [Changelog](CHANGELOG.md)
- [License](../LICENSE)
- [Author](author.md)
- [Contributing](contributing.md)
- [FAQ](faq.md)

---

For more, visit the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/Lusan-sapkota/smart-shell).
